[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: Just to recap cuz we're
gonna hop right into authentication.
Let's go over what we're gonna do for
authentication.
So what I wanna do is I wanna
just out this refactor or this
abstraction that we made on step-100-fix
just in case anybody wants to see it.
Well, as you can see, there's so
much more room to do these abstractions.
I mean, so much more.
I mean you could even, if you go
look at the controllers themselves,
all these can be abstracted, too.
They're literally all
doing the same thing.
There's only one method in here
that's doing something different,
and that's the post,
cuz it's populating, right here.
That's the only thing it's doing
different, but that's just an option away.
Just passing an option,
it's just like populating stuff.
So you can even abstract
this stuff out so, hey,
create routes also create
controller methods, done.
It's the same thing.
>> Scott Moss: So
I'm gonna check this stuff in.
>> Scott Moss: It's really hard for
me to type cuz I'm so
tall that there's an angle,
so that's why I'm messing up.
push origin step-10-fix.
So that's up there if you want to
pull it down, and check it out.
So now, this is where it gets
kind of hard and tricky and
like, a lot of stuff is
really going on here, so
get checked out step-11.
Man, there's 11 steps, that's crazy.
So there's a lot of new
things happening in here.
>> Scott Moss: So
I'm just gonna walk through,
cuz I added tons of stuff in here.
So I'm gonna walk through
all the stuff I just added.
So if you restart the server,
first of all do an NPM install.
I added tons of stuff, so
just make sure you do an NPM install.
Cuz I'm 100% sure that you wanna
have the stuff that's in here.
>> Scott Moss: So
that's the first thing you do.
Make it a good habit,
is when you start switching branches, or
pulling from GitHub,
or forking and cloning.
And there's a package that JSON,
just run npm install.
>> Scott Moss: Cool.
So once again, you have that if you don't
NPM start I'm not sure if this will
actually start up or not.
I don't know if the code that you have
to fix is actually breaking this.
But let's see.
So one thing you notice is that
I put these log tags in here so
you'll see you'll have better clear
visibility on what's being logged or not.
So there's like some emojis or
something in there.
So if you do logger.log now you
start it'll always have this tag on
it that says log.
And it's blue now, not purple.
And if you did logger.error you'll
see like a thing that, it's red and
have Xs on it.
That tell you it's an error.
So it's easy to spot out.
So I added that to the logger that could
be conditionally turned on and off.
I also added the ability
to seed the database.
So when you start the database up,
it will seed it.
It will tell you what it's seeded with.
Seeded database with three posts,
three users, and three categories.
But before it does that,
it will delete the database.
It will drop the database first, then it
will seed the database with three things,
so if I stop it, and start over again,
there will still only ever be
three in there at a given time.
>> Scott Moss: That also can
be conditionally turned on or
off in our config file,
and I'll show you that.
So that's there.
Again if you wanna see some
advanced uses of promises and
stuff, if you go look in
util/c.js the file that I've
actually seeded in the database
is a hundred lines of promises.
So you could check this stuff out if
you wanna see I'm doing stuff here.
>> Scott Moss: But
that's just if you wanna look at it and
then also
>> Scott Moss: If you go to
config.js, I added some filter for
our JSON web tokens.
So I'm adding how long I want them
to expire, in this case it's like
ten days in minutes, so
it's like what, 14,000 minutes?
I don't know, something like that.
Maybe more, but ten days in minutes.
And then, I'm adding a JSON web
token secret, so either pass it into
the environment, or I'm just gonna
default to gumball, for now.
You should not do this in production,
you should just put this in your file.
It's just not something you should do.
But we're not running
production right now.
So I'm just gonna leave that there.
>> Scott Moss: And then,
in development, there is a new file.
This is actually out of a couple sets ago,
but there's a new for DB, and
this is where we restore.
We're just like, for development
we're gonna connect to this database.
And then for testing, we're gonna
connect to the testing database,
it's a different database.
So this is why the config file is awesome,
cuz we can change this stuff
off based on the environment.
And we know these files get loaded in
depending on what environment we're
running in, so
we don't gotta think about it.
So when we run our tests, if we just say,
processing your V equals test and
then we run the server, we know for
sure this file will get loaded up and
merge in with the config file.
And if we go to server.js you'll notice
it's using config.db.url which could
either be that testing one or
the development one, we don't really care.
It will do it depending
on the environment.
So it's great.
And right underneath it, if config.seed so
if you said yes seed the database,
it'll seed the database.
And that also is part of config so that's
you've got development it says seed: true.
So in development seed the database.
>> Scott Moss: So all that stuff is there.
That stuff you will not be dealing with.
That's the stuff that I added.
So if you start looking at it and
you're wondering what's going on,
that's the stuff that I added that you
don't have to work with right now.
What we're gonna be focusing on
>> Scott Moss: Is authentication.
So now there's a new folder called auth,
and there's just a lot of
stuff going on in here.
So let's start at the beginning,
auth.js, so
here's what we're gonna do
authorization web token stuff.
Anything relates to authentication
is gonna happen in here.
Where we gonna use it
elsewhere in the application.
What the creation and the definition
of is gonna happen in this file.
As far as like the middleware,
the functions, the signing,
the checking,
all this stuff is gonna happen here.
So let's walkthrough some of the packages.
jsonwebtoken that's this package,
right here.
It's not the official JSON web token.
I don't think if there's
an official one but
it's the one that you should use for
the node.
It's called JSON web token and this is
the one we're gonna use to sign and
verify our JSON web tokens.
expressJwt is a rapper
around jsomwebtoken and
all it does is it just
verifies your tokens for you.
We can just call jsomwebtoken.verify
ourself but express jwt,
it makes it work really great with Express
Middleware so we know how to do it.
And it's build by the same two people.
So of zero bill jwt,
they also built expressJwt, so
they built both of them so
they work well with each other.
Always getting our config.
And then, here, over here,
we have this check config right here.
This returns in Middleware function for
us, this is why expressJwt is awesome.
They pass in the secret and it returns
the middleware function that can
look on the request of authorization and
determine if the token is valid or not.
And then, we just get our user model here.
Cuz we're gonna need our user model for
authentication purposes, of course.
So if you scroll to, there's like a couple
of function that is not built out.
Some halfway built out, the word is
fully built out as this signToken one.
So this is what a signToken looks like.
You can say jwt.sign.
And all we do is we create
an object with an _id property.
I use _id because Mango uses _id.
That's all the reason I put _id there.
I mean it's just an object.
You can put whatever you want here.
But I just put _id.
Although I rather have it just be id, but
if the database is gonna say _id,
I'm gonna make sure it's the same.
I ran into so many problems, where I'm
like, I hate using _id, I'm gonna use id.
Then I get errors because of mismatched
things, so I just keep it uniform.
When I refer to id I'm talking about _id.
So I hit that, and
then we also need to pass in this secret,
which is config.secrets.jwt,
we've said that in our config.
And then, here's the option to
where we can expire this thing,
I also put this in the config,
remember I had the expire time.
So expires in minutes, I put like
ten days in minutes right there.
So that,
it's called a return to sign token.
If it signs, it will return the string.
So we'll use that as a utility method.